  The Czech Republic is deciding whether to re-elect pro-Russian President Milos Zeman for a second term or replace him with career academic Jiri Drahos, who has pledged to strengthen the country 9s ties with its allies in the European Union and NATO. Zeman, 73, is a supporter of Russian President Vladimir Putin and an early fan of U.S. President Donald Trump and campaigned by warning against Muslim migrants in a country with tiny religious minorities. His challenger, a 68 -year-old chemistry professor, vowed to creturn dignity to the post, a reference to Zeman 9s frequent clashes with media and political rivals. Opinion polls signaled a close race before the two-day runoff. Voting will resume at 8 a.m. and last until 2 p.m. Saturday, with results expected in the afternoon. The Czech Republic boasts one of the fastest-growing economies in the EU, the lowest unemployment in the bloc and the highest living standards among its post-communist members. Still, Zeman has tapped anti-establishment sentiment that boosted populist politicians that challenged the EU 9s liberal, multi-cultural values elsewhere across the continent in elections last year. While the president has a largely ceremonial role, the post serves as an influential voice in public debate.      cCzech society is very divided, said Balazs Jarabik, a scholar at Carnegie Europe. cThe urban elites should show a bit more understanding toward rural voters. They really do have totally different possibilities. And the differences are only growing. !(https://assets.bwbx.io/images/users/iqjWHBFdfxIU/iJ3Z.QCPsoL4/v0/60x-1.jpg) Jiri Drahos, left, and Milos Zeman during a television debate on Jan. 23. Photographer: Michal Cizek/AFP via Getty Images While most executive powers lie with the government, the president names the prime minister, appoints central bankers and commands the military. The winner of the vote may also influence a complicated political situation after billionaire Premier Andrej Babis 9s minority administration was forced to resign(https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2018-01-19/czech- parliament-strips-billionaire-premier-of-his-immunity "Czech Parliament Strips Billionaire Premier of His Immunity") when it failed to win approval from lawmakers earlier this month. Zeman has already pledged to give Babis a second chance(/news/terminal/P2Z5U5SYF01S "Czech President Zeman Sticks to Plan to Name Babis Premier Again") to form a cabinet regardless of the outcome of the presidential election. Babis and his ANO party endorsed the incumbent before the presidential election. QuickTake Q&A on Zeman 9s political views and support for Putin(https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2018-01-10/how-an-ardent- putin-fan-chases-czech-re-election-quicktake-q-a "Click for full story") Zeman used his first term to carve out a stronger role for the post via what he calls a ccreative interpretation of the constitution. Critics say his pro-Russian and anti-migrant rhetoric, jokes about killing journalists, vegetarians and teetotalers and his support of extremist political forces including a far-right party that advocates leaving the EU, have undermined the authority of the presidency. Zeman calls himself a euro-federalist, but he also suggested that Czech Republic should hold a Brexit-style referendum to leave the EU. He said he 9d vote to stay in although people should have a choice.     During the campaign, the incumbent accused Drahos of being soft on refugees. His supporters ran a full-page add in Pravo newspaper on Thursday that said cStop the migrants and Drahos. This country is ours. While Drahos said the Czech Republic ccan handle some 2,600 refugees, he also opposes the EU 9s quotas for migrants.   
