  **GREEN**  By Sam Graham-Felsen  301 pp. Random House. $27. ,  cGreen, the debut novel from Sam Graham-Felsen, who was chief blogger for Barack Obama 9s 2008 presidential campaign, chronicles the middle school travails of an anomalous variety of minority student. cI am the white boy at the Martin Luther King Middle, is how 12-year-old David Alexander Greenfeld, nicknamed Green, introduces himself in the novel 9s opening line. Martin Luther King Middle is a Boston public school 4 cmad ghetto, in Green 9s estimation 4 where his progressive parents have sent him for sixth grade. He 9s not the only white boy in the school, but the other one 4 his friend Kev, who 9s got lip scruff and spiky black hair along with prowess on the basketball court 4 often passes for Puerto Rican. There 9s no mistaking Green, though: not with his blue eyes and blond curls and constantly flushed cheeks, not with his monogrammed L. L. Bean backpack, not with his weakness for blurting the word cawesome ( ca Caucasian catastrophe, he notes). Almost all 12-year-olds are confused about who and what they are, but for David Greenfeld, at school, one conspicuous facet of his identity defines him: not his Green-ness, but his whiteness. , Hewing to the classic coming-of-age-novel formula, cGreen 9s Green experiences a variety of awakenings 4 sexual, religious, familial, moral and not surprisingly racial 4 during the course of his sixth-grade school year (1992-93), all of which get relayed in first-person, present- tense, slanged-up narration. The alarm clock for some of these awakenings is the friendship Green strikes with Marlon Wellings, a pious, studious black classmate who lives near Green in the Robert Gould Shaw Homes, a.k.a. cthe projects. Marlon, unlike Green, is mostly immune to social tensions, sitting by himself at lunchtime studying for the entrance exam to Boston Latin, the city 9s elite public school, where Green also aims to transfer. Green 9s first impression is that Marlon clooks pretty soft, and thus approachable: ccreased khakis, pilled-up flannel, boxy black shoes and a short, unkempt flattop, more like a clumpy cloud. He has a gap in his front teeth, just as Green does, but the similarities don 9t end there. The bond they form is based partly upon a clandestine love for the Boston Celtics 4 cno one openly admits they feel the Celtics anymore, Green says 4 and partly upon their shared desire for an upward move to Boston Latin. At Martin Luther King Middle they 9re outsiders, and both of them are desperate to get even farther outside. , The similarities do, however, bear some obvious endpoints. Green 9s Birkenstock-shod parents went to Harvard before embarking on a life of bobo activism ( cPops gives mad loot to Greenpeace d); Marlon 9s father is somewhere down South while his grandmother cares for him along with his mentally ill mother. Green and his 8-year-old brother, Benno, spend summers helping their parents tend a community garden plot; Marlon eats asparagus for the first time at Green 9s house and the resultant urine smell triggers a cancer panic. Green is a secular Jew, confounded by what that even means, while Marlon sings in the choir in a storefront church near the Roxbury border. Green 9s parents, if they would relax their principles, could conceivably send him to a safer private school (brother Benno, who recently stopped speaking, attends one such school cfor sensitive kids d); Marlon 9s grandmother is absent that option. And Marlon is black, while Green, glaringly, is white. , This dynamic 4 the white boy adrift in the urban and predominantly black school, the fraught cross-racial friendship that blooms there 4 isn 9t new to fiction. Jonathan Lethem probed it, with exquisite grace, in his 2003 novel cThe Fortress of Solitude. (A line from Lethem 9s novel, in fact, could serve as a 10-word summary of Green: cA white boy in sixth grade, squirming in the glare. d) Graham-Felsen isn 9t reaching for the same lofty heights as Lethem did (few novelists dare to), but he is reaching in the same general direction: toward the terribly thorny beauty at the heart of cross-racial friendships, which constitutes, per Leslie Fiedler and others, one of our essential American stories. These thorns keep getting denser and sharper as cGreen progresses, as when Green discovers that the pair 9s snow shoveling business is successful only when he approaches potential customers without Marlon in sight. What we call racism Green apprehends as cthe force d: its energies everywhere, cworking on everyone, himself included. When Green copies a couple of answers from Marlon during the fated entrance exam, the white proctor takes notice but lets it slide. cA sickening mix of relief and shame sweeps over me, says Green. cMar knows it and I do, too: I 9ve been saved by the force. , Moments like these 4 rendered subtly, without poster-size messaging 4 are when cGreen is at its most prickly and compelling. Scenes of innocence 4 Green and Marlon clowning in homemade pro-wrestler costumes, or watching VHS tapes of Larry Bird-era Celtics games from inside a living room fort made of blankets and chairs 4 serve as their delicately calibrated counterbalances, affecting in their sweetness but credible in their lack of saccharine. Graham-Felsen lets boys be boys: messy-brained, impulsive, goatish, self-centered, outwardly gutsy but often inwardly terrified. The voice with which Graham-Felsen equips Green, overseasoned with hip-hop slang, is the epitome of this. At first blush it suggests Holden Caulfield as translated by Vanilla Ice ( cIf I 9m gonna make another attempt to kick it to her, I 9m gonna need a new Machine, and for that I 9m gonna need to fatten my muenster stack, fast d). Yet as the novel advances, and this street stud pose starts splintering, the voice itself gathers a kind of dorky poignancy, the reader sensing an unseen wobble upon Green 9s stiff, pale lip. Is it linguistic blackface, with all that implies, or a 12-year- old 9s guileless attempt to cobble together a voice of his own from what 9s nearest at hand? cI wish I had what he has, Green says of Marlon at one point. He 9s talking about religion, but it could be identity or maybe identity 9s midwife, community. cAll I came up with was confusion. , Yet this reader found himself wishing for something of Marlon 9s, too: _his_ awakenings, _his_ perspective, _his_ inner voice, _his_ fullness on the page. As Lethem wrote in cThe Fortress of Solitude d: cThe white kid has one set of feelings, the black kid another. That we aren 9t privy to those feelings owes less to malpractice than to the inherent limitations of Graham-Felsen telling this story through Green 9s blue eyes. Marlon only exists within Green 9s purview, which means that cGreen 4 and by extension the reader 4 sees only a fraction of the whole. cWe match up in a million soft little ways 4 why can 9t we just be boys again? Green laments near the end, when the friendship has run aground. cBut the more I think about it, the more I wonder if we were meant to be shards from the start. Not just me and Mar 4 everyone. Look around. \u2026 The force is everywhere, prying us apart. There 9s more hopefulness than this by the final pages, but it 9s a long-shot hope, a coin into a fountain. He and Marlon match up in a million ways save one, but that one, in America then as now, seems cursed to outweigh all the others.  
