  Education protects white women from losing their babies in infancy. The more education they have, the lower the infant mortality rate. Strangely, though, it 9s the opposite for black women. The most educated face the greatest risk of having their children die at birth or in infancy. Stress from dealing with racism and sexism seems to be a key reason that highly educated black women are far more likely lose their babies than are equally educated white women, says Keisha\xa0Bentley-Edwards, a co-author of a new report, which is titled cFighting at Birth: Eradicating the Black- White Infant Mortality Gap. The stress can lead to premature delivery of low birth-weight babies. !(https://assets.bwbx.io/images/users/iqjWHBFdfxIU/iWAXZozJqUpQ/v0/60x-1.png) Duke University, Insight Center for Community Economic Development  cWhen you 9re the only black woman in the room, when you 9re often working in\xa0elite circles where you are the first or you are the only, there is a toll to be paid, says Bentley-Edwards. Herself a\xa0black woman with a doctorate, she is a professor of general internal medicine at Duke University, as well as associate research director at Duke 9s Samuel DuBois Cook Center on Social Equity. The research was done in concert with the\xa0Insight Center for Community Economic Development in Oakland, Calif.     The findings of cFighting at Birth aren 9t entirely new. Researchers have known for decades that black mothers 9\xa0infant mortality rate is about twice that of white women, and that black women don 9t get the same protection from education and higher socioeconomic status that white women do. Even many black women who have attained high rank carry the legacy of a lifetime of struggle. Damage to the body from stress, known as cweathering, has wide-ranging health effects that may manifest themselves during pregnancy.     Bentley-Edwards says the report makes two contributions. It puts all the research together in what she calls a\xa0 cdigestible form. And it advocates for solutions that the medical establishment has resisted. Bentley- Edwards says doctors and public-health officials tend to focus their efforts on\xa0poor women, regardless of their race. That 9s a worthy effort, but it does nothing for black women who aren 9t poor but nonetheless\xa0are at grave risk of losing their newborn babies.  cThis is a push for a policy that 9s directed at black women specifically, she says. The extremely high rate of infant mortality for black women with doctorates or professional degrees raises the question of whether there 9s a fluke in\xa0the data. After all, there are relatively few black women with advanced degrees that give\xa0birth in any given year, and far fewer whose babies die in infancy. But Bentley-Edwards says statistical tests confirmed the result. And even if the disparity is somewhat smaller on average than these numbers show, the overall problem has been repeatedly confirmed by other researchers. Bentley-Edwards says the report should not be taken as a message to black women to think twice about getting an advanced education. cWe have to attack the stressor, she says. cEliminate job discrimination. We need allies to step in when we see a black woman at work not being treated the way she should be. The woman shouldn 9t feel guilty that she 9s complicit. It 9s not the education that 9s doing it.     Infant mortality rates have fallen for all races over the decades, but the rate for black women overall has remained about twice that of white women overall. White American women have the same risk as women in New Zealand, while black American women have the same risk as women in Romania or Thailand. Black\xa0American women are far more likely to give birth prematurely, which is a major risk factor for infant mortality. Differences remain, even after accounting for factors such as poverty, obesity, age of mother, and illegal drug use. A 2015 study(https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12160-015-9687-2) in the _Annals of Behavioral Medicine_ by researchers at the University of Pittsburgh, University of Wisconsin, and Emory University looked at markers\xa0of inflammation in the body and found that cthe health ramifications\xa0of high anger, or poorly controlled anger, may be stronger\xa0in African Americans with more, compared to less, education. Last year, the _International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health_ published an  article(https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28678200) by researchers at Tulane University and other institutions that included interviews with 18 black women who had lost their children in infancy. Some\xa0said that they felt the medical establishment was insensitive to their loss. cI mean, we planned her. We wanted her, one said. Another said, cIt 9s like, 8No! We are human. We care about our well- being just like you do. 9 Even tennis star Serena Williams had problems\xa0when she gave birth. In her case, the life in danger was hers, not her child 9s. She told _Vogue_ magazine(https://www.vogue.com/article/serena-williams-vogue-cover-interview- february-2018)\xa0that when she insisted on a CT scan to check for blood clots, a nurse told her that her pain medicine might be confusing her. She insisted on the scan and was proven correct. cI was like, 8listen to Dr. Williams! 9 she said. ProPublica\xa0and NPR News last year co-published a story(https://www.propublica.org/article/nothing-protects-black-women-from- dying-in-pregnancy-and-childbirth) that likewise focused on the risk of childbirth to black women. According to the Centers for Disease Control, it said,\xa0black mothers in the U.S. die at three to four times the rate of white mothers.  cFighting at Birth is more prescriptive about black infant mortality than most previous\xa0studies. It recommends support for programs and advocacy groups for black mothers; protocols to minimize bias by health- care providers; enforcement of laws against discrimination against black women; increased social support for expectant black women; and encouragement of breastfeeding, among other fixes.\xa0   
