 MELBOURNE, Australia 4 At Lumineer Academy, a newly opened primary school in Williamstown, Australia, there is no homework. There are no classrooms, uniforms or traditional grades. , Instead, there are ccreator spaces, cblue-sky thinking sessions and cpitch decks. , If the school 4 furnished like a start-up with whiteboards and beanbag chairs 4 sounds like the idea of a Silicon Valley entrepreneur, that 9s because it is. , That entrepreneur is Susan Wu, 44, an American who has been called one of the cmost influential women in technology(https://www.fastcompany.com/3017162/the-most-influential-women-in- technology-2010-susan-wu) and who has advised or invested in companies that include Twitter, Reddit and Stripe. , Ms. Wu and her team believe they are starting an education revolution. They say they have created a new model for teaching children, called Luminaria(http://www.luminaria.org/), that promises to prepare them to become the architects of 4 rather than mere participants in 4 a future world. ,  cOur current school models were built 100-plus years ago for the Industrial Revolution, said Ms. Wu. cWhat they cared about were homogeneous factories that produced a template of a kind of worker. The world has changed. , Critics, however, see Lumineer Academy(http://www.lumineer.edu.au/) as another in a series of attempts by Silicon Valley(https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/06/technology/tech-billionaires- education-zuckerberg-facebook-hastings.html) to apply the same techniques used to churn out successful apps to instead turn out successful children. , In the United States, as more tech executives have tried their hands at opening schools, education experts have debated, and in some cases warned about, the effects of corporate money and influence(https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/03/technology/silicon-valley- baltimore-schools.html) pervading the classroom. , In recent years, schools and education programs have been founded by Elon Musk, the founder of Tesla; Reed Hastings, the chief executive of Netflix; and Marc Benioff, the founder of Salesforce. , Despite glittering launches and promises to disrupt education, schools founded by tech executives have yet to demonstrate success. AltSchool, founded by the former Google executive Max Ventilla, announced last year that it would close several of its schools after a series of reported losses, despite raising $175 million from investors like Mark Zuckerberg, and charging tuition fees of around $28,000. , Ms. Wu is aware of the challenges her technology sector peers have faced, but she says her school 9s model, team and location in Australia could set it apart. , Private education is much more common in Australia than in the United States. About a third of Australian children attend private schools 4 nearly three times the rate of American children 4 meaning there are fewer national sensitivities around unions, corporate influence and tuition. Like most independent Australian schools, Lumineer Academy is a nonprofit. , Ms. Wu says that she and her co-founders, Sophie Fenton and Amanda Tawhai, pack a one-two punch that combines her business acumen with their knowledge of education. , Ms. Fenton won Australian Teacher of the Year in 2013 and has written exams for the Victorian Certificate of Education 4 the final assessment required of students in the state of Victoria. , Though similar ventures by tech entrepreneurs have failed, Ms. Wu 9s Silicon Valley peers said she was uniquely suited to founding a successful school. ,  cShe brings new perspective to problems that have existed for a long time, said Mike Curtis, vice president of engineering at Airbnb. cAlmost any problem space 4 no matter how different it is from the last 4 she seems to be able to tackle. , Lumineer Academy opened in January in a former customs house in a wealthy suburb of Melbourne. There are 130 students enrolled and tuition costs around 10,000 Australian dollars, or $8,000. , Unlike most Australian private schools, students at the academy do not wear a required uniform. Instead, students are encouraged to build their own wardrobes within a prescribed palette. (In nautical stripes and khakis, many children resemble those in a J. Crew catalog.) , Classrooms in the school have been rebranded cstudios. There are no desks, but rooms include couches, beanbag chairs and tables to stand at while working. , The Luminaria model claims to balance hard S.T.E.M. subjects, like computer programing, with soft skills like emotional intelligence and teamwork that are increasingly sought by employers. Ms. Wu said the model was based on a concept in physics known as first principles, in which ideas are reduced to their purest form, unencumbered by assumptions, analogies or biases. , Several recent studies have suggested that 30 to 50 percent of Australian teachers leave the profession within their first few years of work. Lumineer Academy has sought to capture some of them with a promise of freedom from strict curriculums. ,  cWhen I saw the job advertised, I thought, 8This can 9t be true, 9 said Kim Staples, a 31-year-old teacher. cI was so frustrated in other systems, because they 9re quite prescriptive. , Ms. Staples said she would have stopped teaching if she hadn 9t joined Ms. Wu 9s school. ,  cI felt like I was too restricted, she said. cI couldn 9t give children the type of learning experiences that I knew was best for them. , There is evidence of tech-world thinking throughout the school. In one studio, 8- and 9-year-olds worked on a project about socializing. The students outlined their thoughts using a multistep design process that could have been lifted straight from a start-up 9s business plan: blue-sky thinking (thinking outside the box), scope (the work and resources required to get something done), MVP (minimum viable product), delivery and launch. , Outside observers say many of these tech-driven schools are giving new names to old pedagogical ideas. ,  cI was kind of impressed with the number of clich\xe9s and buzzwords that they packed into a short amount of marketing copy, said Audrey Watters, whose blog, Hack Education(http://hackeducation.com/), analyzes the intersection of education and tech. cIn the case of Luminaria, they have everything, they have all the buzzwords: social and emotional learning, mind- sets, grit, S.T.E.M., mindfulness, authentic learning, global consciousness. I mean, pick two of those. , Glenn Savage, an Australian education policy expert, said that it was difficult to see how the school 9s lofty goals could fit within Australia 9s cvery structured education system. ,  cIt 9s important that parents don 9t work on the false assumption that sending students to a school that claims to do things radically different means that the students won 9t be doing anything like students in other schools 4 because that 9s just not the case, he said. , One wall at the school displayed students 9 work with the Asylum Seeker(https://www.asrc.org.au/) Resource Center(https://www.asrc.org.au/), a nonprofit organization that assists refugees hoping to resettle in Australia. , The students had created a cpitch deck 4 tech jargon for a PowerPoint presentation 4 aimed at persuading the group to collaborate with them on a project (it worked). In a nearby ccreator space, students were working to build a profitable micro-farm. They have been assigned to grow and sell goods at the local farmers 9 market by the end of the school year. , One student, Ines Morgan, 8, said she particularly liked a project in which her class observed an ant colony. ,  cOur hypothesis was, 8What happens when an ant colony gets disrupted? 9 she explained. cThey lived in chaos for like a day or two, but then, a few days later, they stuck together and just all decided to rebuild again. , The school 9s website promises to remove the cstress and anxiety students encounter at other schools. , But if students are shielded from emotional adversity in their early years, critics say, they may struggle to cope when they reach high school 4 where desks, traditional teaching methods and puberty await. , Ines, the 8-year-old ant colony disrupter, said she had seen ca little bit of bullying but that it was dealt with as a collective. , When asked how the situation was resolved, another student, Noah Helu, 8, said, cWell, it 9s like what Ines learned about the ant colony: Sticking together helped us stop the bullying.  
